# rails_library 📚

This is a Rails app that implements a basic library.

## Setup

The app is set up by running `docker compose build` followed by `docker compose up`

## Functionality

### Books

Information about books can be created, read, updated and deleted. Books can also be searched and added to lists.

#### Recommendations

The app can provide book recommendations based on four different categories:
- Current and recent reads
- Books marked as favourites
- Rereads related to your current and recent reads
- Books unrelated to anything read within a specified time period

Books are said to be related if they are by the same author or appear on the same list. Recommendations can be customised in `Settings` to allow the user to define how long books should be considered a recent read, how soon they would reread a book and the time period for unrelated recommendations.

### Authors

Basic author data is extracted from created books to allow the linking of books by the same author.

### Lists

Lists can be created for the purpose of categorising books. There is a many-to-many relationship between books and lists so that a given book can belong to multiple categories. Default lists include `Favourites` and `Up next` and there are also two autogenerated pseudo-lists: `In progress` and `Recent reads` which cannot be modified.

### Targets

Reading targets can be created to with the aim of reading a certain number of pages or books between specified start and end dates. The progress of the relevant targets is automatically updated when a book is given a `date_finished_reading`.
